So being a full stack app I think the
biggest thing that we have to think about
is a database and where we're gonna save
our data, where we're gonna put the data.
So we're going to actually use a real
database here so if you don't have any
experience with databases or
anything like that that's totally fine.
We're gonna walk through
how to set this stuff up.
And it's gonna be abstracted
away pretty well for
us here with the origin that
we're going to be using.
So you don't need to be a database
expert to get the best of this.
So it's all good.
So to set up the database,
we're going to use Postgres.
The reason it's in Postgres because I
think it's just the most widely accepted
standard database out there.
I've been using it for a while now,
I usually use Mongo a lot, but
I'm lately just using Postgres
because it's, why not switch it up.
I feel like I was just kind of
capped out on Mongo at this point.
But yeah, Postgres is really cool.
But yeah, we need a Postgres database
to be able to work on this app.
There's two ways I recommend doing this.
One, if you already have Postgres,
Postgres on your computer,
just start the server.
You should be good.
If you don't have Postgres on your
computer, you can download it on computer
if you want to just by going
to the post Postgres website.
The other way is you can just get
a hosted one and use it locally.
So now that Heroku is gone,
and you can't get a free hosted
Heroku free hosted Postgres database.
I found that you can
actually get one on railway.
So, if you go to railway dot app,
and you make a new project,
sign in, whatever, click on new project,
and if you type in,
what can we help with if
you just type in Postgres,
you can see over here it says provision,
provision PostgreSQL And click that.
And it's gonna spin up
a Postgres database.
It's going to do the best that it can and
once it's done you can click on
settings or, I'm sorry, not settings.
You can click on the actual database and
then you can click on connect and
then here where it says
Postgres connection URL.
You can just copy that.
That's the URL that you want.
So let's have that URL ready
if you're using railway.
But if you already have postures on
your computer, you can use that.
I'm using the one on my computer
because I never turn it off.
It's always.
But either is fine.
Any questions on that?
I think it's like free up till point.
You get, like, some hours.
It'll be more than what you need for
this course, but
it's not going to last there forever.
Like, maybe that was Heroku's downfall,
is that they just they were too generous.
So, we're always like we're gonna
cut you off if you don't use it.
Okay?
So we want to do is once you have that
URL, we need to add that to our env file.
So what we can do is if
you go to your repo,
you need to add a file called dot
env on the route like this and
inside of here you need to add
an environment variable call it database,
underscore URL like that And
you need to set it to your database.
So if you have the was it railway,
where is it at,
if you had the railway one
you can copy railway and
it will look at something like this or
you can paste that in there.
And yeah, you can just you get to
save that and that should be fine.
You can add I think you can add
something like schema public here.
I think that does something with
the ORM that we're gonna use that makes
it does introspection,
but it's not necessary.
What I'm just gonna put it there,
I always have it there.
Okay, and
I think you can change this name here for
a different database name if you want.
Yes.
>> Thoughts on render versus railway?
>> I have yet
to deploy anything on railway, so
I can't speak to it other than
just using their databases.
But I can talk about render and,
render feels like Heroku [LAUGH].
It feels just like Heroku, you could take
that as good or bad if you'd liked Heroku.
I liked Heroku, I thought was pretty cool
but railway seems like a lot of potential.
I like their develop, I like their
dev experience from at least the docs
that I've read and the videos that
I've watched but I haven't used it so
I can't really give any opinions on it so.
I don't know if someone has used I'd
love to hear your thoughts,
but it looks cool okay,
good to go there all right Next thing we
want to do is we want
to initialize our ORM.
Which is basically if you
don't know what ORM is,
you can think of is like,
it's like an SDK for your database.
That's, basically the answer.
They should just call it that.
I don't know why it's called ORM anymore.
It should just be like, database SDK.
That's literally what it is.
We're using one called Prisma.
Prisma is like kind of the standard
at this point when it comes to
interacting with databases,
at least in my opinion.
It's database agnostic.
It works on every database.
It has its own schema,
syntax that's really easy to use.
It's pretty cool.
So to do that, you can go on your terminal
and you can just type in NPX PRIs.
I'm in.
And you can see right now Prisma is like,
we tried to add a database URL but
it already existed.
Actually, if you wanna see how that works,
I can, well, you could delete the env file
if you wanna see what it generates, but
you already added it so you don't need to.
But it's basically the same,
you got to set the database URL and
all this other stuff.
And if you go and look, you'll see that
it added a Prisma folder to your repo.
To open up Prisma folder,
you'll see there's a schema in there.
And that scheme has these two things.
It's got this generated client and
it's got this data source generated
client is saying, so Prisma's SDK for
your database is generated.
So the SDK that you have is different
than the one that I'll have.
It gets generated on a command
because it's type safe.
It's the types are generated based off
the schema that you write in here.
So this is just saying, here is
the client file that I want you to use to
generate my schema,
which is one that they made.
So this is suggesting,
just saying that you could probably
make your own if you want it to.
I don't know why you would but
you probably could.
And then data source db is just saying
what database we want, defaults to
Postgres, and then what environment
variable or URL does it point to.
And there we go, we got that.